Texte1
“Bursaphelenchus xylophilus, is a notorious parasitic nematode of pine trees that causes pine wilt disease (PWD), leading to extensive mortality of different pine trees around the world and considerable economic losses”

Texte2
“The bacterium 'Xylella Fastidiosa' was detected in nine more places in the Porto Metropolitan Area, mainly in citrus, and the demarcated area was extended, revealed this Monday the Confederation of Farmers of Portugal (CAP). "As a result of the confirmation of the presence of the bacterium 'Xylella Fastidiosa' in nine new locations, in the municipalities of Vila Nova de Gaia, Santa Maria da Feira, Porto and Espinho"

Texte3
The establishment of laboratory isolates of the pinewood nematode Bursaphelenchus xylophilus, the causal agent of the pine wilt disease, has been crucial to research on this important forest pathogen. Obtaining and Maintaining Cultures of Pinewood Nematodes Bursaphelenchus xylophilus from Wild Dauers PMID: 35819595 DOI: 10.1007/978-1-0716-2517-0_1 Obtaining and Maintaining Cultures of Pinewood Nematodes Bursaphelenchus xylophilus from Wild Dauers Abstract The establishment of laboratory isolates of the pinewood nematode Bursaphelenchus xylophilus, the causal agent of the pine wilt disease, has been crucial to research on this important forest pathogen. Here we describe a simple, low-cost, and easy way to obtain samples of wild populations of B. xylophilus by culturing dauers extracted directly from the insect vector.

Texte4
message: Epidemiological Role of Dictyophara europaea (Hemiptera: Dictyopharidae) in the Transmission of ‘Candidatus Phytoplasma solani’ Bois noir, an economically important disease of grapevine yellows that causes significant economic losses in wine production, is associated with ‘Candidatus Phytoplasma solani’ and transmitted to grapevines by cixiids Hyalesthes obsoletus and Reptalus panzeri. 
Polyphagous planthopper Dictyophara europaea, commonly found in natural habitats, harbors phytoplasmas from distinct groups and is an alternative vector in the open epidemiological cycles of the Flavescence dorée phytoplasma in grapevine in European vineyards. This study addresses the role of D. europaea in the transmission cycle(s) of ‘Ca. P. solani’ among wild habitats, natural reservoir plants, and the vineyard agroecosystem using MLSA and transmission trials with naturally infected adults to grapevine and Catharanthus roseus. "
Texte5
message: In Balclutha calamagrostis and Balclutha punctata, the bacterium Nasuia has not been detected. In the bacteriomes of both species of Balclutha examined, only bacteria Sulcia occur, whereas Sodalis-like symbionts (phylum Proteobacteria, class Gammaproteobacteria) are localized in the fat body cells, in close vicinity of the bacteriomes. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the co-existence in Deltocephalinae leafhoppers of the ancient symbiont Sulcia and the more recently acquired Sodalis-like bacterium.

Texte6
Golden flavescence in the vineyards, the first case in the Burgraviato
The yellow lights continue to spread. The Bassa Atesina is particularly affected: in Salorno almost all the controlled areas have symptomatic vines; in one vineyard the percentage of diseased plants has even reached 19 percent - the whole vineyard must be eradicated from 20 percent. And, for the first time, a case of flavescence dorée was also detected in the Burgraviato.

Texte7
“The spread of flavescence dorée is a serious concern. We will only be able to overcome the challenges associated with this situation by relying on research and adequate advice ”, states the provincial councilor for agriculture Arnold Schuler.
Since mid-August, on behalf of the Consorzio Vini Alto Adige, a team of specially trained employees has been visiting vineyards throughout South Tyrol and, in particular, the Chardonnay and Pinot Grigio vineyards and the plants of all the varieties harvested. planted two and three years ago, to mark symptomatic vines with a yellow-black tape. "This year we are concentrating equally on all the cultivation areas of South Tyrol, so as to ascertain the spread and plan the necessary interventions", explains Hansjörg Hafner, head of the Viticulture sector at the Consultancy Center for fruit growing in the 'South Tyrol. Throughout the province, the Phytosanitary Service and the Consultancy Center for Fruit Growing in South Tyrol collect specimens of leaves to be sent to the Laimburg Research Center for laboratory analysis. To the naked eye, in fact, the Flavescence dorée, scientific name of the flavescence dorée, is indistinguishable from the black wood disease. “This year, in the laboratory, we are mainly examining leaf samples from areas and vineyards that, in the past, have never been hit or only lightly hit. This also contributes to monitoring dissemination. The suspicion of flavescence dorée was confirmed in more than 15 percent of the samples examined in the laboratory ”, underlines Raffael Peer, project manager at the Consultancy Center for Fruit Growing in South Tyrol.

Texte8
Flavescence dorée is a non-curable disease of the grapevine spread all over the world. In the white varieties the leaves take on a yellowish color, while in the red varieties the color changes to reddish. The leaves then roll down from the edge and take on a triangular shape. The sprout remains green and does not turn into wood, the berries die. The first suspected case in South Tyrol was registered in 2016; since then the number of infestations has been steadily increasing and the disease of the vines is spreading from south to north. The pathogen of flavescence dorée is the cell-wall-free bacterium Flavescence dorèe-Phytoplasma (FDp). The main vector is the American vine leafhopper, a variety of vine cicada introduced in Europe about seventy years ago that spends its entire life cycle on the vine, transmitting the disease from branch to branch and from vineyard to vineyard, thus causing the occurrence of real epidemic outbreaks.

Texte9
For apple proliferation, psyllids seem to be responsible for the transmission of the disease, even though leafhoppers also have been reported as possible vectors. Hegab and El-Zohairy (1986) described the ability of a spittlebug, Philaenus spumarius (L.) (Homoptera: Cercopidae) and a leafhopper, Artianus interstitialis (Germar) (Homoptera: Cicadellidae), in transmitting apple proliferation from infected celery to apple seedlings and from infected to healthy celery. Another leafhopper, Fieberiella florii Stål (Homoptera: Cicadellidae), has been implicated in unconfirmed reports as a vector of AP in Germany (Krczal et al. 1988).

Texte10
Researchers use science of light to reduce pesticides used to protect crops from pests and diseases
Experts from two Midlands universities are launching a new project to develop a photonic ‘nose’ to monitor crops for pests and plant diseases.
Aston University has partnered with Harper Adams University to research and develop technology that uses light to monitor crop health.
According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, up to 40 percent of global crop production is lost to pests every year. Every year, plant diseases cost the global economy more than $220 billion and invasive insects at least $70 billion.
The research in the Midlands will use strawberries to test the new technology. The fruit is worth £350 million to the UK economy, but it is vulnerable to potato aphid, which has the potential to wipe out an annual crop.
Crops are currently treated with pesticides, but the environmental burden is increasing pressure to find alternatives.
One method is to use Integrated Pest Management (IPM) to create an early warning system. It monitors plants for insect and disease formation rather than spraying plants with chemicals, but so far it has proven unreliable and expensive.
The new project uses recent advances in photonics technology that can analyze low levels of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) emitted by plants, which is an indicator of their health. This is coupled with machine learning hardware, making it practical to use artificial intelligence in commercial environments. Professor David Webb of the Aston Institute of Photonic Technologies (AIPT) says that “better monitoring technologies for invertebrate pests and plant diseases will significantly help reduce crop losses.”
“However, most electronic noses use electrochemical sensors, which suffer from sensitivity issues, sensor bias/aging effects, and a lack of specificity.”
“We plan to address this by building on the rapidly evolving technology of photonics — the science of light — while collaborating with scientists in other disciplines.”
The 12-month project will receive £200,000 from the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) and the Natural Environment Research Council. The grant is the maximum amount of their molecules given to the landscape project, funding interdisciplinary solutions to ‘real’ challenges.
dr. Joe Roberts of Harper Adams University says that “with the expected increase in the world’s population, there will be increasing pressure on the agricultural sector to achieve higher crop yields.”
“Reducing crop losses within existing production systems will improve food security without increasing resource use.”
“We plan to establish an interdisciplinary community of agricultural science, optical sensing and machine learning experts to develop new plant health monitoring platforms that improve agricultural production through localized monitoring of pests and diseases. to detect hotspots.”

Texte11
Xylella, the use of biosensors allows to find the bacterium before it acts - Dissapore
A group of researchers is using electronic biosensors to find the Xylella bacterium before its effects are visible.
The use of electronic biosensors could help detect a single Xylella bacterium quickly, even earlier that it acts and that its effects actually become visible, in such a way as to allow much more effective contrast interventions: this, in a nutshell, is the objective of the research of the Institute for the Sustainable Protection of Plants (Cnr-Ipsp) and the Institute of Photonics and Nanotechnology (Cnr-Ifn) of the National Research Council, in collaboration with the Departments of Chemistry, Pharmacy-Drug Sciences and Physics of the University of Bari, with the contribution of Agritest.
As the scientists themselves explain, in fact, the ultrasensitive detection of Xylella has so far made use of molecular detection tests that point to the DNA of the bacterium itself as a target: the use of this type of analysis, however, necessarily involves the use of laboratory equipment and infrastructure together with analysis times of at least three hours. "The innovative electronic platform proposed by the team of researchers from Bari would instead allow the detection of a single bacterium in just 30 minutes directly in the field" explains Luisa Torsi, full professor of analytical chemistry at the University of Bari and vice president of the Scientific Council of the Cnr, which coordinated the research.
In other words, identifying the bacterium early and then implementing the appropriate containment measures seems to represent a concrete method for slowing down its progress. “We need rapid and reliable tools to diagnose and intervene early trying to stop the disease, for which no cures capable of healing infected plants have so far been found”.” explained in this regard Donato Boscia, head of the Bari office of the Institute for the Sustainable Protection of Plants (Cnr-Ipsp). At the same time, we remind you that 22 million euros were allocated this summer for the replanting of olive trees in the infected area.

Texte12
An odorant binding protein mediates Bactrocera dorsalis olfactory sensitivity to host plant volatiles and male attractant compounds
Odorant-binding proteins (OBPs) are believed to play critical roles in host-seeking behavior. However, little attention was paid to its different func…
Odorant-binding proteins (OBPs) are believed to play critical roles in host-seeking behavior. However, little attention was paid to its different functions in male and female. The antenna-specific OBP gene from Bactrocera dorsalis, BdorOBP13, was cloned and its expression profile was examined. The results showed that BdorOBP13 was exclusively expressed in male and female adults, which exhibited a high transcript level in antennae. After injection of BdorOBP13 dsRNA, its transcript level in males and females decreased significantly. Electrophysiological responses of RNAi-injected flies to, methyl eugenol (male attractant) and γ-octalactone (female attractant) decreased significantly. However, no significant changes in the electrophysiological response were observed in RNAi-injected flies to benzothiazole, (+),dipentene, and ethyl tiglate. The behavioral bioassay showed that males treated with RNAi significantly reduced their preference to methyl eugenol, while RNAi-injected females showed a significantly lower preference to γ-octalactone, suggesting that BdorOBP13 may have different functions between males and females: it may be involved in the detection of methyl eugenol in males but is involved in the detection of γ-octalactone in females. These findings improve our understanding of insect OBPs and their roles in insect chemosensation, which may provide us with new molecular targets in the management of B. dorsalis.

Texte13
"The Fall Armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda), a notorious plant pest, has been found on maize crops in Kenya. This pest is known to cause maize lethal necrosis, a serious disease affecting maize plants. Additionally, the pest is vected by the corn leafhopper (Dalbulus maidis), an insect vector commonly found in South America."
Texte14
Geographic ranges of species in this assemblage extend as far west as Britain and Western Europe, as shown by Cacopsylla pyrisuga (Foerster), C. pyri, and C. pyricola; eastwards into Uzbekistan, Turkey, and neighboring regions [Cacopsylla fera (Baeva) and Cacopsylla bidens (Šulc)]; and southwards into the Mediterranean Basin and Middle East, as shown again by C. bidens (Burckhardt and Hodkinson 1986, Cho et al. 2017, Akbar et al 2018; see also Fig. 2). Descriptions and identification keys are available in Burckhardt and Hodkinson (1986). Most species in this group associate with the European pear (P. communis), although other Pyrus also are hosts, such as Pyrus spinosa Forsskål for Cacopsylla notata (Flor) and the wild pear Pryus korshinskyi Litvinov hosting C. fera (Burckhardt and Hodkinson 1986, Cho et al. 2017).


